Navaratri Puja, Cabella, Italy
September 27, 1998
You can't imagine how a Mother who has so
many beautiful children sees them in such
joyous mood with their families, their children,
nicely settled down. It's very satisfying
to see you all so much in joy and complete
oneness with the Divine. One has to realize
only one thing: that though you are many,
still compared to the population of this world,
we are very few who really know the true knowledge,
the real knowledge. You are the people who
are knowledgeable, no doubt, but also knowledge
which is not being adorned with truth or which
is not the true knowledge has no meaning.
All that vanishes into thin air because it
is artificial.
By your kundalini awakening you all have achieved
that state where we can say you know. You
know what is the real knowledge is, but think
of the people who do not know what knowledge
is. We take, for example we say that our knowledge
is nothing but love, but one should understand
the discrimination. The knowledge that is
love within you is just emitting out from
your being. You don't have to assert, you
don't have to think, you don't have to
read some sort of a poetry or go into some
romantic mood; just pure love which emits,
and this is the knowledge also.
How you have to relate it is this way: the
knowledge that you have about yourself is
evident, is absolutely expressed on your fingertips,
and about others also. You know about others
and about yourself. This is the greatest subtle
knowledge you have. No one knows like that.
Apart from you people, no one knows about
themselves or about others. So this knowledge
that has come to you, which is extremely subtle,
extremely secretive, is absolutely secret.
If you know about somebody, you know. Others
do not know that you know about them, and
so this knowledge that you have got is nothing
but love. It's very difficult to make knowledge
and love put together, because our idea of
knowledge is very different, what we read
from the books. How can you love from the
books? What love means, our attachments: to
us, in ignorance we get attached to people,
to children, to family, to things. By getting
attachment it is proved that we do not have
the knowledge.
If you have the knowledge then all attachments
should just drop out and you should become
a global personality, a drop in the ocean.
For example, we are attached to many things,
like we are attached to our family. Something
happens in the family we get very disturbed,
we can't bear it. If anything happens to
our children, we feel horrible, it's just
the whole world is falling on you.
Then from family you move on. You are attached
to your friends, to your neighbors; you are
also attached to your country. Attachment
to your country is also not knowledge. Once
you are a realized soul, you just start seeing
your country clearly: what wrong it has got,
what ignorance it has got, in what darkness
it exists, and in what way it is quarrelling,
fighting for rights and things. But with the
knowledge that you have within yourself, you
see it so clearly what is the problem of your
country; then you try to improve that through
your love -- means the power of your knowledge
is love.
If you have all the knowledge within you,
and if you are just sitting at home and meditating,
it has no meaning. What you have to go is
to go about, tell people -- you have to meet
other people, your friends, your family and
other relations -- about your knowledge.
If you cannot do that, then your knowledge
is not with love. It's such a connection
between the two. You feel like telling everybody
that you've got your realization. You feel
like telling everyone that you are a realized
soul, but in that you feel that you are expressing
your ego. All right, by some other ways, some
other methods, you can express to them that
you have the true knowledge. When you have
the false knowledge you can get ego. You can
think that "I know so much, I know about
this, I know the color of the carpets, all
the shades, everything." Any stupid thing
if you know, you think that you are very great.
That's the sign of stupidity in your head
also, that you think this is very great to
know.
Now we have discovered that through all kinds
of acquiring knowledge in the whole world,
what we have achieved? Nothing. There are
wars going on. There's all kinds of destructions
coming in. I saw on the television this George.
It's a whirlwind which is going round and
is killing so many people; is destroying so
many people without understanding what he
is doing, but he's there and he's acting
very well. So is it that he doesn't understand,
or is it that he understands and that he is
doing something just to correct people? This
also we should have full idea.
Like yesterday when I came here it was raining
heavily, and then I sat down and suddenly
it stopped, stopped till the whole program
was over. Till I spoke it was not working,
but suddenly when you started clapping, also
it started clapping -- that's what it was.
So even the nature knows who you are, but
you must know the nature, this is the point.
Nature will act according to what your level
of spirituality is.
Surprisingly I always felt that there cannot
be levels of spirituality. I felt that once
you get realization you are there, but later
on discovered I was wrong; it is not so. Even
after getting realization, I found people
had so many obstructions in rising. There
were so many temptations which were keeping
them down. So one had to work out on different
chakras, different nadis, somehow or other
to make you perfect, because the perfection
within only will give you the authority to
use this knowledge.
There are as I told you two ways of doing
it. The other day I told you that you should
not react. It's human nature to react. It's
absolutely human, but if you have to become
superhuman, you should not react. By not reacting
you will grow, definitely you'll grow, but
if you react then you cannot grow, because
you are working under the pressure of other
thing that is not yourself. Now supposing
as I said I see these carpets, I know the
color and this and that, and I react to it
-- finished. I will not have any sense of
judgment if I react to it, but if I don't
react, then I'll know whether these carpets
have got vibrations or not. Are they emitting
vibrations or not? Now what are these vibrations?
That is the love.
So the communication is like this: if you
have the light you can see things. So when
you see things the light is there, and light
gives you the perception, gives you the vision
to see things. In the same way when you are
enlightened, what happens that these vibrations
start flowing, just like the light, and in
that light you can see things which are good
and which are bad. But sometimes you put the
same parameters as human beings do. Like you
go to some house, a very nice house, very
good house. All these things make you very
happy; but actually, what about that house?
Is it having good vibrations or it's having
bad vibrations? Is it worth living there or
not?
Like the other day they told Me they can get
a very nice place in Milan, little beyond
Milan, on rent, very cheap. I said, "Why
is it so cheap?" Immediately I felt the
vibrations of the place. I said, "Did you
go and see the vibrations of that place?"
They went and saw -- this was all burning.
Then they found out that there was a Scientology
there for years together. I said, "That's
not the place where you can live. You have
to have a very pure place. Even hut of a poor
man would be better than this comfortable
so-called place."
So one has to use the vibrations all the time
to understand everything that you are doing.
In that also it can be misleading them. Some
people feel vibrations and they tell Me, "Mother,
I felt the vibrations and I felt I should
marry this man."
I said, "You did feel the vibrations?"
"Yes. Yes I did, very much, and I must marry
this man."
And when I see the man I see the bhoot in
him. I said, "My God, what sort of vibrations
this lady has felt about him?"
So in your judgment what is there: there's
no pure knowledge. So see how, how connected
they are -- vibrations which is love; and
also the other thing which you have to have
is the knowledge, the pure knowledge, the
true knowledge. We can say that pure knowledge
and true knowledge is like the energy, like
electricity. And the way you feel it, the
way you understand it, it exists -- that
is love. People don't understand also what
is the love is. They get mad after someone
and say that, "Mother, I say I think that
I am in love with that person." And after
five days they'll come and say, "Mother,
no, I won't have anything to do with that
person." Why? Because you have not got the
pure knowledge. You did not feel the pure
knowledge in that person through your vibrations.
Now see how connected it is. Like we can say
the sun and the sunlight, what is the difference
between the two? Sun is there. When sun comes,
there's sunlight. So what is the difference?
Or we can say the moon and the moonlight;
what is the difference? There is no difference
in these two things -- one is the moon and
another is the light. So all these things
are very, very confusing, that we don't
understand how confused we are about it, and
we don't understand how our vibrations can
mislead us. Because vibrations are there all
right, but sometimes even if they are missing,
just to justify yourself you will say, "We
have vibrations and we feel that it's very
good, excellent," and later on you'll
discover that it's not so.
So even now when we are realized souls, we
should know what is encompassing us, which
is around us; what is that which makes us
feel that it's all right, it is good, we
should have it. Once we start understanding
that vibrations of pure knowledge are of a
very different nature, then you're not attached
to that person, you're not attached to that
family, you're not attached to that country
-- nothing. But what you feel is the pure
vibrations coming to you.
This is the point which is very confusing
when you say, "My vibrations are good. I
like those vibrations," and while you jump
into the ocean of filth. Many people have
asked Me, "Mother, why is it sometimes we
make mistakes?" You do not make mistakes.
It's your ignorance, which is darkness,
and that's why whenever you plunge into
it you fall into trouble. So to understand
that our knowledge has to be completely clear.
Like in our house supposing we have a lamp
that's dirty, you cannot get the light.
In the same way if our heart is not clean
-- specially our heart, if it is not clean,
then we start doing things believing that
it's right, and by which we hurt yourself
or others. It's a very, very common error
in human nature to identify wrong things as
right and just to make themselves look such
a great, such a divine thing.
As I told you now there are people who want
to, say, divide the country; simple reason
they want to divide. Now they want to divide
this thing because they want to have importance.
The few people who want their importance will
instigate others, tell them, "All right,
we must have freedom. If we have freedom we'll
have this country for ourselves, then we can
develop ourselves." Or a part of the country
which is richer, which is better off, they
will think that "It's all right, we'll
have all the money to ourselves, we'll have
everything to ourselves," so they divide.
They can divide in the name of religion, in
the name of prosperity -- whatever it is.
But if you divide the country actually you
are facing a big problem, because you have
seen that wherever people divide they fall
into a kind of a dark, dark dungeon from where
they cannot come out. It's just a few people
whose ego is that they want to have some land
as their own, but they die; not only die,
some of them are murdered, and like that all
that idea that "We'll have this possession
of the land" goes away.
So in the same way we can see on smaller things
also. In smaller things also we are very much
identified, that "If I have this thing then
everything will be fine." You cannot understand
how people just jump at things and say, "Oh
Mother, this is ours, this is ours, we must
do this for ourselves," openly. They don't
think it's wrong to say that "This is
my country; I must do for my country." And
another says that "This is my country; I
must do for my country." As long as there
is this "my and I" that means there is
no knowledge.
The knowledge as I told you, pure knowledge
is that which gives you a pure light. Pure
light means pure vibrations. Now vibrations
can be misleading as I told you, or could
be the quantity of vibrations can be less
or more. But there's another way to see
-- is to see for yourself, why do you want
to do a particular thing? Mental also you
can use, parameter of mental understanding.
"Why do I want to do it? What is the gain
for all the people?" If you start thinking
from that angle that "What is the gain for
others, what will they gain by this, why should
I do it?" -- you'll be amazed. You will
get the real picture of what you are doing.
So you must keep yourself all the time in
a state where you witness yourself. You see
yourself, that "Why am I doing this? What
is the purpose?" Sometimes it could be some
conditioning, could be some sort of a psychological
thing, could be anything. But if you start
watching carefully "Why I'm doing it?"
you'd be amazed that your vibrations itself
will start telling you on your fingertips.
But sometimes the vibrations are so superficially
coming, "Ah, I got the vibrations, I'm
this, I'm that." For this reason I am
saying again and again, though you are such
a nice family of Mine and we are all so much
blessed and we have so much of knowledge with
us, we should be very wise. If there is no
wisdom, if there is no wisdom, we can never
understand what we are doing.
Now to develop this wisdom, what have you
to do? See every time, if I say anything they'll
come otherwise, "Mother, how do we get wisdom?
What is the way to get the wisdom?" Wisdom
you have already within you, Shri Ganesha
is already there, who gives you the wisdom.
But you must take to Shri Ganesh. There I
find people become so much addicted to Shri
Ganesh that they lose His identity completely,
they become very slavish about the whole thing
and they just believe that, oh, they are very
spiritual, they are very great. All these
false ideas are no good.
Does your Ganesha gives you wisdom? Now you
must count, how many wise things have you
done so far? Where did you take a very wise
decision? Have you been wise to do something,
or you have been just doing it because you
are identified with a particular type of life
or particular type of answer? So wisdom is
a thing that gives you, first of all, complete
peace. If your wisdom is developed then you
become very peaceful. Because whatever people
may say, whatever they may do, whatever aggression
they may do, whatever it is, you are peaceful.
And you see the stupidity of the other person,
of the other nations, and you understand why
they are doing it.
This wisdom is such an important thing in
human being, because animals don't have
so much wisdom as we have. Sometimes of course,
sometimes we have even less than animals have.
But still, by experience, you see, we have
to learn that we have been making mistakes.
So many mistakes we have committed so far.
Now are we going to commit more mistakes or
are we going to be wise? Wisdom is not apparent
outside. You can't say somebody is wise
by looking at that person, but in vibrations
you will know that that person is extremely
wise. He may speak; he may not speak. If he
speaks he'll speak about something so deep,
so wise, and so nice, without hurting you.
This kind of a temperament if you develop
is to become wise for every question.
For example, some are very attached to their
children; so much attached that they forget
that they are part and parcel of this divine
Force, and they just start doing all kinds
of things. The other day I met one lady whose
son was very sick, and she took him to the
hospital and doctors gave him all kinds of
medicines, and he became even worse. Then
she telephones to Me, "Mother, I don't
know what happened, I went to the doctor and
doctor gave him this and that treatment, and
the child has become sick." But why didn't
you ask Me before? Why did you go to the hospital
first? Lack of wisdom. I'm there, why don't
you ask?
We had one case here in Cabella. There was
one child who fell down and broke his arm.
Now the mother didn't show any wisdom. She
took the child to the hospital and the doctor
said, "Tomorrow we are going to operate
her and put some artificial arm inside."
But the father was sensible. He said, "All
right, tomorrow, no? Today I'll take the
child at home."
He brought the child to Me in the night about
three o'clock. I said, "All right."
I put it right.
Next day when he took it to the hospital the
doctor said, "But now there's no need
to operate because his arm is all right."
See the difference? One is worried, immediately
they'll go to the doctor, instead of consulting
Me, asking Me. They are Sahaja yogis, but
they will go and ask the doctor to do something
or other. Once the doctors start doing something
then they'll come to Me. There's lots
of miracles must have taken place about Sahaja
Yoga, I must say, and in that you should see
the wisdom helps you. Of course My attention
is there always, no doubt, but still you should
not take it for granted; you have to ask.
One day, you see, I was just sitting; I just
thought that I should telephone somebody in
the ashram of New York. I never telephone
there. So I found out the phone number, we
telephoned and asked if ... I said, "Is
the child all right?" So the leader there
was surprised, because that boy had fallen
in the water and was in the water for quite
some time, and he was all filled with water,
even his brain was filled with water. As usual
there were some doctors who said that he cannot
survive and even if he survives, his brain
has so much water that he cannot be normal.
So I just said that "Don't worry." I
didn't know. Nobody told Me. "Don't
worry. The boy will be all right completely."
So they were surprised how I said so. Firstly
how I knew that the boy had fallen, there
was some boy like that. And then they didn't
know how I said he'll be all right, and
he was all right. He's perfectly all right.
So they were surprised at My knowing about
it -- how is it that Mother knows that there's
a boy who is so sick?
Here I will say it is pure knowledge. You
see, My attention is always around you people,
always dealing with you people. And how I
know is this: that this attention of Mine
is global; so anything happens to you, any
upsetting takes place, any, I should say,
deviation takes place -- My attention is
there. And immediately I know there's something
wrong somewhere, and I don't know how My
attention goes to particular places, which
makes it ... life better, it helps people
in need. I don't do anything about this
attention but this attention is the wisdom,
the wisdom that spreads all over. With that
wisdom you know what's wrong with another
person or any other organization that is in
Sahaja Yoga. Everything you come to know.
If you want to know it's different, it just
you know. Like you spread out everywhere.
For example, if you have to telephone, then
you have to use the telephone, but for Me
I don't have to use the telephone, I just
know.
So this has come from a pure innocent wisdom.
The innocent wisdom is just like a child -- it
is everywhere, and it communicates and it
tells what's the matter, what's the problem
is. Many people have been cured with Sahaja
Yoga, many have been cured. Now if they can
say that "Mother, how did we get cured,
what have You done? Did You see our chakras?
Did You find out what was wrong with us?"
No, I haven't. I haven't, but I leave
it, in My wisdom I leave it to Paramchaitanya
to do the job. This is the main point is,
that can you leave everything to Paramchaitanya
in your wisdom? If you cannot, then yet you
have not felt the real knowledge within you.
That is the level of some people are. I am
not now so sure about those who get realization
are all so much filled with pure knowledge.
Some of them are, but not all of them. With
experience they learn. With meeting people,
they learn. But as the wisdom, pure wisdom,
is difficult for them because they do not
rely entirely on the Paramchaitanya. Everything
happens, just Paramchaitanya knows, it understands,
it organizes, it loves, it does everything.
That's the Energy it is. It does everything.
And how it manages, how we call coincidences
are really organized by Paramchaitanya.
As I told you yesterday the way the rain was,
the rain came and went away. It has wisdom.
Innately it knows I am sitting here, the program
is going to start -- stops. Flowers know
Me. You don't know, when we have flowers
they are of this size, I don't do anything
to them; they start growing, growing like
this, they blast like that. Now one would
say, "Mother, how do they know?" Because
they are natural. We are unnatural. We have
taken so many artificialities as part and
parcel of life. See all kinds of courtesies,
this, that -- all that's not necessary.
All these stupid practices that we have adopted
sometimes keep us away from pure knowledge.
And when there's no pure knowledge, we don't
know anything what's happening. We just
get frightened for small things, upset for
something. I mean it's something very surprising
to see Sahaja yogis getting upset.
Among the hundred people if supposing there's
a problem, so if you are a Sahaja yogi you
have to just witness, and see. If you cannot
do that then you are not a Sahaja yogi. But
it's not like practicing, you know, like
they say if you have to have the blessings
of Shiva, you must say a hundred-and-eight
times His name. That's not the way -- He
doesn't like it. You see, nobody likes that
kind of a murmuring. You see somebody comes
and takes your name all the time near your
door, you will throw him out. So that's
not the way, this is a wrong idea that you
go on taking the name of somebody and that
deity will help you. First of all you have
to become wise enough to understand that you
are a part and parcel of Paramchaitanya. Everything
will work out by that, and it works out so
beautifully. Of course some people have hard
time, I don't say they don't have. But
it is not hard, because if you are one with
Paramchaitanya and you know that it is doing
the job, you are not feeling that hardness
or sickness or anything.
All the people who'll write to Me about
their problems, I don't know what to say.
Could just say that "Do you believe in Paramchaitanya?"
All right. It knows. It knows what is to be
done. It knows what is to be corrected. It
knows what is to be said. See, it can create
poetry, it can create music, it can create
everything; but do you leave everything to
the Paramchaitanya? This is the second point
in wisdom: do you have wisdom to leave everything
to Paramchaitanya?
After experiencing also. Like there was one
lady who was going in the car and she found
her car and the brakes weren't braking,
and she didn't know what to do. Now if the
brakes are no more, how will she manage? It
was in Germany, and all the cars were moving
very fast, and she didn't know what to do.
So she put her head on the steering wheel
and she said, "I leave it to Paramchaitanya."
She said, she leaves it to Me -- all right,
this is the same. So by saying that, what
happened? She said, "Mother I don't know,
when I raised my head I found my car was taken
on one side of the road and nobody was there.
All the cars were passing by, but somehow
or other this car was taken there very nicely
by some Force."
So the wisdom lies in understanding the working
of Paramchaitanya: how it guides you, how
it helps you, how it preserves you; how, depending
on Paramchaitanya, you can continue to be
living very happily. I think in Sahaja Yoga
we have lost very few Sahaja yogis. They live
for long, they don't die, and if you ask
their experiences, it's very amazing how
it works out. If they don't want to live
also they can pass, but if they want to live,
Paramchaitanya takes over and you can live
long. But living long doesn't mean that
you go on bothering yourself as to what you
will do with your money, how will you live,
what will be the source. All these nonsensical
things, worries, come to you, all right. Then
the Paramchaitanya says, "All right, go
on worrying." If you go on worrying, all
right go on worrying, doesn't matter. What
will happen? Whatever has to happen will happen.
But Paramchaitanya can interfere, in case
you leave it to Paramchaitanya. It's said
many a times, "Leave it to God, leave it
to God," but "God" means ... I don't
know what they mean by God. God means Paramchaitanya,
God means living divine Force that is working
everything.
So the another way of looking at it is the
wisdom that we should understand, that each
and every particle of this world is created
by Divine, by the divine Force. And this particle
and everything is completely under the guidance
and supervision of Paramchaitanya. Nothing
can move unless until Paramachaitanya works
on them. It is something so connected, globally
it's so much there that people don't realize
what they are doing, what they should have
done. I mean on many scales you find something
happening. Like supposing something is happening
now in America. Just try to find out what
America has done to other countries; immediately
you'll get the answer.
So also it takes full care of the persons
who believe in Paramchaitanya, who give everything
in the hands of Paramchaitanya. We give things
to the police, we'll give to the doctors,
we give it to the some civil people, civil
what you call them, engineers to do some things.
But they can make mistakes; they can create
problems. But you leave it to Paramchaitanya.
It's something so remarkable that in My
own life I have seen that all the time it
works for Me.
I was building a house in Pune and we had
to put a slab -- very, very big slab; needed
about three hundred bags of cement for that.
So I got the cement and I got the people,
but they said, "You're to start early
in the morning and you can finish next morning,
twenty-four hours."
I said, "All right." So at about five
o'clock I told, "Let's go, the work
is over."
They said, "How do you know?"
I said, "I know, let's go and see."
So imagine, which was going to finish after
twelve hours was already finished and all
the workers were walking about. And everybody
said, "Mother, it's a miracle. How can
such a big slab be laid in such a short time?"
I said, you see, to make them understand I
said, "Must be Hanumana must have done the
job."
But all these people, all these deities are
part and parcel of that Paramchaitanya. Now
you are worshipping the Mother. To worship
the Mother is the biggest thing because all
these deities and everybody are Her children,
under Her command, under Her desire. So to
worship the Mother, the story of as you know
about Ganesha, that the Mother said that "The
one who goes round the Mother Earth three
times, I will give Him a present."
So Shri Ganesha thought in His wisdom, "Who
is greater than My Mother? No one else."
Because He knew He cannot compete with His
brother who has got a peacock for a conveyance.
So He said, "How can I go round and win
over this person?" So best is to take to
wisdom. "My Mother is greater than everything
else." So He went around His Mother three
times and He got the prize, and the other
brother was just still moving on. When He
came back He found that the present is already
lost.
So again and again I'll say it is the wisdom
that helps you, the wisdom to leave everything
to Paramchaitanya. And this is something,
for a modern person, very difficult to understand.
He can't calculate two plus two. He's
so bad because of this computers and things
like that, is absolutely hopeless as far as
any mathematical calculations are needed or...
Now I am, I must say, I don't know how to
handle any computer or any calculator; but
if you ask Me just like that, "Mother, how
much will it be?" I'll say so much, and
it will be that. It will be that. But I am
so sure about it, it cannot be anything else
but that, and it works that way. Sometimes
of course, if I want to tell some wrong thing
just to mislead the person then I may say
something, but normally I know it is that.
But I know not like the way we know; I just
know it, that's what it is, just know it.
So I am not saying that you develop your knowledge
to that extent that you can do it, but your
wisdom. If you start using your wisdom, it
will always come handy. In anything that you
do, think of the wisdom.
My advice to you is that as your Mother loves
the whole world, loves all of you, and cares
for those who haven't even got realization,
you should also strive to create more people
for Sahaja Yoga. But in that if you start
behaving in a manner all the time saying,
"You are catching this, you are a bhoot,
you are this, you are that." I never said
that to anyone, so you shouldn't say like
that. That's no love, that's no understanding.
The understanding is that you were just the
same as the person was and now you are knowledgeable,
so you must use your knowledge to correct
that person, not to put him down. And that
correction is also not verbal; it's just
through your vibrations you can correct the
other person. Most of the Sahaja Yoga work
sometimes I've seen that it stops because
we are very methodical, we become like great
teachers, we start telling them stories, and
then they get fed up with you.
So when you are handling other people, as
I said, we have to spread the knowledge, very
important, we cannot keep it to ourselves.
But it's not for any ambition, for any leadership,
for any kind of recognition; but just the
use of our wisdom, use of our knowledge that
we want to help others out of love. Not for
any recognition, not for any position, nothing
-- just we want to do it because we love
them. And I am sure this will work out very
effectively. And the person who will be helped,
or the persons who will be helped will be
just, be bound to you because they find the
true knowledge.
But supposing somebody comes to you and says,
"I know the true knowledge."
You say, "You might be knowing, but I have
to know what you know."
Then you ask that person; then he'll give
you a big lecture. You should say, "No,
that's not the thing." Just smile. Say,
"That's not the thing."
The thing is, true knowledge is a part and
parcel of your being. It's just within you.
It is not some sort of a concrete stuff that
you have read or you have understood, but
it just has become a light within you, and
that light is there. It has no ... it's
no necessity for you to be very well educated,
or to be very intelligent, or to be very highly
placed, not necessary. It is how your heart
is clean. In the heart it resides. Imagine,
all other knowledge resides in the brain,
while the pure knowledge resides in the heart.
Very surprising.
But we do not know also that actually our
heart rules the head.
There are seven auras around the heart which
control the brain in such a manner that we
act in the hands of the Paramchaitanya. Unless
and until your heart is clean, unless and
until in your heart you have a beautiful image
of a person who is very, very pure, you cannot,
you cannot do anything mentally. And from
your heart if you have to do, your heart has
to be very clean and extremely wise. This
is the point one has to jump into: that your
heart, is it wise? For example, to get attached
to someone too much, identified with some
much shows that your heart is not clean. It
has so many bondages.
Open your heart, fully. And that's why they
say that the Goddess resides in the Heart,
in the center Heart. She resides in the center
Heart because She's so balanced. She resides
in the center Heart as Shakti, and She gives
you all that you want. Within you She's
settled down as many things. You know the
Shlokas which says that She's settled within
us like knowledge, She's settled within
us as memory, She is settled within us as
sleep, also She's settled within us as illusion,
bhranti. She's the one who puts us into
illusions because we are not yet fully perfected.
We have to become paripakwa -- means absolutely,
absolutely matured. Till we are matured this
Mother Herself puts you into illusions and
plays around, so that you learn how to be
wise.
So one should understand that She's playing
around with you. And you should try to be
very careful and not to be falling into Her
maya, because if She puts you in the maya,
you'll go round and round and you will reach
nowhere. So this power of bhranti is also
very important, this delusion you can call
it; or else you can call it a thing by which
She creates a drama, in which you become like
a stupid man being found out. So this stupidity
and all that can be removed by this bhranti
that She creates. And this power of bhranti
is because of human beings as they are, because
they will not understand something straightforward;
so it has to go round and round, till they
reach a point to understand that it was the
play of the Mother that brought them to this
shore of wisdom.
So for us it is important to see that so much
has been done by Paramchaitanya for us, the
Mother has done so much for us. Now what are
we going to do ourselves to get all these
powers that She has given us, to be completely
enlightened and developed? What have we done
so far? Nothing to be done as such but to
develop a kind of a deep devotion, deep understanding;
and that depth is possible, absolutely possible,
because now you are on your way to that perfection.
So today in Cabella is the last puja, and
I want to tell you as a Mother that you all
should depend on Paramchaitanya. That's
very important, to depend on Paramchaitanya.
Also there's a habit of many people to put
the blame on others, like, "I got caught
up from this person and got caught up from
that person." You are caught up by yourself
only. All such ideas are of no use. Face yourself,
find out about yourself, and you have to perfect
yourself.
That's so important, because at this juncture
of the time people think that something great
is going to happen. I don't know. Two thousand
years according to them would be something
great, but I don't know, because is all
man-made, all this two thousand year and three
thousand year is man-made. But I Myself feel,
as predicted by many, that possibly because
of your understanding and your wisdom I'm
sure something great may happen in this world,
and things may be brought to a proper level
of understanding of spirituality. Because
this is the Last Judgment, and in this Last
Judgment you have to play a very vital role,
which I am sure you can do it, if you decide
to achieve something for the future.
May God bless you.